docs/usage: Add build and run complex apps doc (#147)
unikraft/docs: content/en/docs/usage/make_build.md

### `app-sqlite` for `x86`

The first step is to clone our dependencies:

1. [unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft)

1. [SQLite](https://github.com/unikraft/app-sqlite)

1. [lib-sqlite](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-sqlite), [lib-musl](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-musl)

We should be left with a file hierarchy that should look like this:

```console
workdir
|---apps/
|      |---app-sqlite/
|---libs/
|      |---lib-musl/
|      |---lib-sqlite/
|---unikraft/
```

We must now create a `Makefile` in the `app-sqlite` directory:

```Makefile
UK_ROOT ?= $(PWD)/../../unikraft
UK_LIBS ?= $(PWD)/../../libs
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-sqlite

all:
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS)

$(MAKECMDGOALS):
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS) $(MAKECMDGOALS)
```

We should also create a `Makefile.uk` in the `app-sqlite` directory:

```Makefile
$(eval $(call addlib,appsqlite))
```

Now, onto configuring our app:

```console
$ make menuconfig
```

1. choose our usuals from `Architecture Selection`

> 1. choose all `Virtio` options from `Platform configuration`->`KVM guest`->`Virtio`

Reviewer: Shouldn't `musl` also be here?

Inside it we'll create this `script.sql` script:

```sql
CREATE TABLE tab (d1 int, d2 text);
INSERT INTO tab VALUES (random(), cast(random() as text)),
(random(), cast(random() as text)),
(random(), cast(random() as text)),
(random(), cast(random() as text)),
(random(), cast(random() as text)),
(random(), cast(random() as text)),
(random(), cast(random() as text)),
(random(), cast(random() as text)),
(random(), cast(random() as text)),
(random(), cast(random() as text));    
```

The last step is running our app:

```console
$ sudo qemu-system-x86_64 -fsdev local,id=myid,path=$(pwd)/fs0,security_model=none \
                          -device virtio-9p-pci,fsdev=myid,mount_tag=rootfs,disable-modern=on,disable-legacy=off \
                          -kernel "build/app-sqlite_kvm-x86_64" \
                          -enable-kvm \
                          -nographic
```

And testing it:

```console
Booting from ROM..Powered by
o.   .o       _ _               __ _
Oo   Oo  ___ (_) | __ __  __ _ ' _) :_
oO   oO ' _ `| | |/ /  _)' _` | |_|  _)
oOo oOO| | | | |   (| | | (_) |  _) :_
 OoOoO ._, ._:_:_,\_._,  .__,_:_, \___)

>                   Phoebe 0.10.0~9bf6e63

Reviewer: Change this to the `0.12` unikraft version :rocket:

                 Phoebe 0.10.0~ee2a37cf
Hello world!
```

## Building and Running Complex Applications with Make

Let's say we decide to use already ported applications.

> There are many to choose from, so you go for `app-sqlite`, `app-redis` or `app-nginx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many to choose from, so we will go for `app-sqlite`, `app-redis` or `app-nginx`.
```

> This tutorial is here to guide you through the first steps towards successfully launching your (more complex) unikernel; we'll present 2 scenarios: building for `x86` and `AArch64`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial is here to guide us through the first steps towards successfully launching our (more complex) unikernel; we'll present 2 scenarios: building for `x86` and `AArch64`.
```

We should be left with a file hierarchy that should look like this:

```console
workdir
|---apps/
|      |---app-sqlite/
|---libs/
|      |---lib-musl/
|      |---lib-sqlite/
|---unikraft/
```

We must now create a `Makefile` in the `app-sqlite` directory:

```Makefile
UK_ROOT ?= $(PWD)/../../unikraft
UK_LIBS ?= $(PWD)/../../libs
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-sqlite

all:
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS)

$(MAKECMDGOALS):
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS) $(MAKECMDGOALS)
```

We should also create a `Makefile.uk` in the `app-sqlite` directory:

```Makefile
$(eval $(call addlib,appsqlite))
```

Now, onto configuring our app:

```console
$ make menuconfig
```

1. Choose the `x86` architecture from `Architecture Selection`

1. Choose the `KVM` platform from `Platform Configuration`

1. Choose all `Virtio` options from `Platform configuration->KVM guest->Virtio`

1. Choose the `SQLite`, `musl` and `vfscore` libraries from the `Library Configuration` screen.

1. Under the `vfscore` library, choose the `Default root filesystem` to be `9pfs`

We'll build our app:

```console

> $ make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ make -j $(ncpus)
```

Oo   Oo  ___ (_) | __ __  __ _ ' _) :_
oO   oO ' _ `| | |/ /  _)' _` | |_|  _)
oOo oOO| | | | |   (| | | (_) |  _) :_
 OoOoO ._, ._:_:_,\_._,  .__,_:_, \___)
      Epimetheus 0.12.0~4c7352c0-custom
SQLite version 3.30.1 2019-10-10 20:19:45
Enter ".help" for usage hints.
Connected to a transient in-memory database.
Use ".open FILENAME" to reopen on a persistent database.
sqlite> .read script.sql
sqlite> select * from tab;
-7215681294144457603|-7881854117727259003
2117848104624103428|-1622087965530640476
-3409481001054928427|-6710007935272102091
-8864771657867452020|4690809563575391968
799097535707348776|-9015585007893225196
-6011599994684870502|5715089397278453373
-861992803967016915|1583603794332302036
-5556545375765846451|-8514616268392191775
6518576960059048853|6826969221610647599
-2505304097900087778|-1087908404908377458
sqlite> .exit
```

**Pro tip**: We usually save the launch command in a script.
This way, it's easier to type it, but if you fancy even more automation, check out [`qemu-guest`](https://github.com/unikraft/kraft/blob/staging/scripts/qemu-guest) or even [kraft](https://unikraft.org/docs/usage/init/#kraft-run).

### `app-sqlite` for `AArch64`

> The process of building `app-sqlite` for `AArch64` is quite similar to the one we've layed out for the `x86` architecture, the only thing that needs changes being the architecture, which should be switched to `Armv8` in the `Architecture Selection` menu.

Reviewer: Maybe also specify that a properclean must be done after changing the architecture.

                           -device virtio-9p-pci,fsdev=myid,mount_tag=rootfs,disable-modern=on,disable-legacy=off \
                           -kernel "build/app-sqlite_kvm-arm64" \
                           -machine virt \
                           -cpu cortex-a57 \
                           -nographic
```

### `app-redis` for `x86`

The first step is to clone our dependencies:

1. [unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft)

1. [redis](https://github.com/unikraft/app-redis)

1. [lib-redis](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-redis), [lib-musl](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-musl), [lib-lwip](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip)

We should be left with a file hierarchy that should look like this:

```console
workdir
|---apps/
|      |---app-redis/
|---libs/
|      |---lib-lwip/
|      |---lib-musl/
|      |---lib-redis/
|---unikraft/
```

We must now create a `Makefile` in the `app-redis` directory:

```Makefile
UK_ROOT ?= $(PWD)/../../unikraft
UK_LIBS ?= $(PWD)/../../libs
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-lwip:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-redis

all:
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS)

$(MAKECMDGOALS):
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS) $(MAKECMDGOALS)
```

> We should alos create a `Makefile.uk` in the `app-redis` directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should also create a `Makefile.uk` in the `app-redis` directory:
```

```Makefile
$(eval $(call addlib,appredis))
```

We'll now create a directory named `fs0` in the `app-redis` directory, download [this file](https://github.com/unikraft/summer-of-code-2021/blob/main/content/en/docs/sessions/04-complex-applications/sol/03-set-up-and-run-redis/redis.conf), a `redis` configuration file, and move it there.
It will help us design a `redis` server close to our liking.

Configuring our app should go smoothly:

```console
$ make menuconfig
```

1. Choose the `x86` architecture from `Architecture Selection`

1. Choose the `KVM` platform from `Platform Configuration`

1. Choose the `Redis`, `lwip`, `musl` libraries from `Library Configuration`

1. In the `Redis` library choose the `Provide main function` option

1. In the `lwip` library make sure to have `IPv4`, `UDP support`, `TCP support`, `ICMP support`, `DHCP support`, `Socket API` enabled

1. Under the `vfscore` library, choose the `Default root filesystem` to be `9pfs`

We'll build our app:

```console

> $ make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ make -j $(ncpus)
```

```console
workdir
|---apps/
|      |---app-nginx/
|---libs/
|      |---lib-lwip/
|      |---lib-musl/
|      |---lib-nginx/
|---unikraft/
```

We must create a `Makefile` in the `app-nginx` directory:

```Makefile
UK_ROOT ?= $(PWD)/../../unikraft
UK_LIBS ?= $(PWD)/../../libs
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-lwip:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-redis

all:
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS)

$(MAKECMDGOALS):
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS) $(MAKECMDGOALS)
```

We should also create a `Makefile.uk` in the `app-nginx` directory:

```Makefile
$(eval $(call addlib,appnginx))
```

Onto configuring our app:

```console
$ make menuconfig
```

1. Choose the `x86` architecture from `Architecture Selection`

1. Choose the `KVM` platform from `Platform Configuration`

1. Choose the `uksignal`, `libnginx`, `lwip`, `musl` libraries from `Library Configuration`

1. In the `libnginx` library, choose the `Provide main function` option

1. In the `lwip` library, make sure to have `IPv4`, `UDP support`, `TCP support`, `ICMP support`, `DHCP support`, `Socket API` enabled

1. Under the `vfscore` library, choose the `Default root filesystem` to be `9pfs`

We'll build our app:

```console

> $ make

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ make -j $(ncpus)
```

</body>
</html>
```

Don't forget to clean up our work: let's delete the bridge we've created earlier:

```console
$ sudo ip l set dev kraft0 down
$ sudo brctl delbr kraft0
```

### `app-nginx` for `AArch64`

Just like we've stated for `SQLite` and `Redis`, for `AArch64` the build steps follow the tutorial for `x86`, the only thing that needs changes being the architecture, which should be switched to `Armv8` in the `Architecture Selection` menu.

Let's launch the unikernel:

```console
$ sudo qemu-system-aarch64 -fsdev local,id=myid,path=$(pwd)/fs0,security_model=none \
                           -device virtio-9p-pci,fsdev=myid,mount_tag=rootfs,disable-modern=on,disable-legacy=off \
                           -netdev bridge,id=en0,br=kraft0 \
                           -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=en0 \
                           -kernel "build/app-nginx_kvm-arm64" \
                           -append "netdev.ipv4_addr=172.44.0.2 netdev.ipv4_gw_addr=172.44.0.1 netdev.ipv4_subnet_mask=255.255.255.0 --" \
                           -machine virt \
                           -cpu cortex-a57 \
                           -nographic
```

> With this last command, our tutorial ends here, it was a long ride but the results should be rewarding enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this last command, our tutorial ends, it was a long ride but the results should be rewarding enough.
```

```console
workdir
|---apps/
|      |---app-redis/
|---libs/
|      |---lib-lwip/
|      |---lib-musl/
|      |---lib-redis/
|---unikraft/
```

We must now create a `Makefile` in the `app-redis` directory:

```Makefile
UK_ROOT ?= $(PWD)/../../unikraft
UK_LIBS ?= $(PWD)/../../libs
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-lwip:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-redis

all:
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS)

$(MAKECMDGOALS):
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS) $(MAKECMDGOALS)
```

We should also create a `Makefile.uk` in the `app-redis` directory:

```Makefile
$(eval $(call addlib,appredis))
```

We'll now create a directory named `fs0` in the `app-redis` directory, download [this file](https://github.com/unikraft/summer-of-code-2021/blob/main/content/en/docs/sessions/04-complex-applications/sol/03-set-up-and-run-redis/redis.conf), a `redis` configuration file, and move it there.
It will help us design a `redis` server close to our liking.

Configuring our app should go smoothly:

```console
$ make menuconfig
```

1. Choose the `x86` architecture from `Architecture Selection`

1. Choose the `KVM` platform from `Platform Configuration`

> 1. Choose the `Redis`, `lwip`, `musl` libraries from `Library Configuration`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose the `Redis`, `lwip` and `musl` libraries from `Library Configuration`
```

                          -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=en0 \
                          -kernel "build/app-redis_kvm-x86_64" \
                          -append "netdev.ipv4_addr=172.44.0.2 netdev.ipv4_gw_addr=172.44.0.1 netdev.ipv4_subnet_mask=255.255.255.0 -- /redis.conf" \
                          -cpu host \
                          -enable-kvm \
                          -nographic
```

We will test our app by using a benchmark.
Download [this executable](https://github.com/unikraft/summer-of-code-2021/blob/main/content/en/docs/sessions/04-complex-applications/sol/03-set-up-and-run-redis/redis-cli) and run it using this command:

```console
$ ./redis-cli -h 172.44.0.2 -p 6379
172.44.0.2:6379> PING
PONG
172.44.0.2:6379> exit
```

Cleaning up our work is always good practice, so let's delete the bridge we've created earlier:

```console
$ sudo ip l set dev kraft0 down
$ sudo brctl delbr kraft0
```

### `app-redis` for `AArch64`

Building `Redis` for the `AArch64` architecture looks very similar to how we did it for `x86`, the only thing that needs changes being the architecture, which should be switched to `Armv8` in the `Architecture Selection` menu.

> 

Reviewer: As on the `sqlite` app, mention that a `properclean` is needed here.

                           -netdev bridge,id=en0,br=kraft0 \
                           -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=en0 \
                           -kernel "build/app-redis_kvm-arm64" \
                           -append "netdev.ipv4_addr=172.44.0.2 netdev.ipv4_gw_addr=172.44.0.1 netdev.ipv4_subnet_mask=255.255.255.0 -- /redis.conf" \
                           -machine virt \
                           -cpu cortex-a57 \
                           -nographic
```

### `app-nginx` for `x86`

The first step is to clone our dependencies:

1. [unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft)

1. [nginx](https://github.com/unikraft/app-nginx)

1. [lib-nginx](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-nginx), [lib-musl](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-musl), [lib-lwip](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip)

We should be left with a file hierarchy that should look like this:

```console
workdir
|---apps/
|      |---app-nginx/
|---libs/
|      |---lib-lwip/
|      |---lib-musl/
|      |---lib-nginx/
|---unikraft/
```

We must create a `Makefile` in the `app-nginx` directory:

```Makefile
UK_ROOT ?= $(PWD)/../../unikraft
UK_LIBS ?= $(PWD)/../../libs

> LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-lwip:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-redis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-lwip:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-nginx
```

make sure to add this to your `/etc/qemu/bridge.conf` file (if it doesn't exist, create it):

```console
allow all
```

For testing our app we'll open a new terminal, or use `tmux`, and give this command to retrive data from the server

```console
$ wget 172.44.0.2
--2021-08-18 16:47:38--  http://172.44.0.2/
--2022-07-19 21:17:17--  http://172.44.0.2/
Connecting to 172.44.0.2:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 180 [text/html]
Saving to: ‘index.html’

2022-07-19 21:17:17 (14,7 MB/s) - ‘index.html’ saved [180/180]
```

```console
$ cat index.html 
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Hello, world!</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Hello, world!</h1>
<p>Powered by <a href="http://unikraft.org">Unikraft</a>.</p>
</body>
</html>
```

Don't forget to clean up our work: let's delete the bridge we've created earlier:

```console
$ sudo ip l set dev kraft0 down
$ sudo brctl delbr kraft0
```

### `app-nginx` for `AArch64`

Just like we've stated for `SQLite` and `Redis`, for `AArch64` the build steps follow the tutorial for `x86`, the only thing that needs changes being the architecture, which should be switched to `Armv8` in the `Architecture Selection` menu.

> 

Reviewer: As on the `sqlite` app, mention that a `properclean` is needed here.

                 Phoebe 0.10.0~ee2a37cf
Hello world!
```

## Building and Running Complex Applications with Make

Let's say we decide to use already ported applications.
There are many to choose from, so we will go for [`app-sqlite`](#app-sqlite-for-x86), [`app-redis`](#app-redis-for-x86) or [`app-nginx`](#app-nginx-for-x86).
This tutorial is here to guide us through the first steps towards successfully launching our (more complex) unikernel.

> For every application, we'll present 2 scenarios: building for `x86` and `AArch64`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For every application, we'll present 2 scenarios: building for `x86_64` and `AArch64`.
```

> ### `app-sqlite` for `x86`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `app-sqlite` for `x86_64`
```

The first step is to clone our dependencies:

1. [unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft)

1. [app-sqlite](https://github.com/unikraft/app-sqlite)

1. [lib-sqlite](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-sqlite), [lib-musl](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-musl)

> We should be left with a file hierarchy that should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should be left with a file hierarchy that looks like this:
```

                          -kernel "build/app-sqlite_kvm-x86_64" \
                          -enable-kvm \
                          -nographic
```

And testing it:

```console
Booting from ROM..Powered by
o.   .o       _ _               __ _
Oo   Oo  ___ (_) | __ __  __ _ ' _) :_
oO   oO ' _ `| | |/ /  _)' _` | |_|  _)
oOo oOO| | | | |   (| | | (_) |  _) :_
 OoOoO ._, ._:_:_,\_._,  .__,_:_, \___)
      Epimetheus 0.12.0~4c7352c0-custom
SQLite version 3.30.1 2019-10-10 20:19:45
Enter ".help" for usage hints.
Connected to a transient in-memory database.
Use ".open FILENAME" to reopen on a persistent database.
sqlite> .read script.sql
sqlite> select * from tab;
-7215681294144457603|-7881854117727259003
2117848104624103428|-1622087965530640476
-3409481001054928427|-6710007935272102091
-8864771657867452020|4690809563575391968
799097535707348776|-9015585007893225196
-6011599994684870502|5715089397278453373
-861992803967016915|1583603794332302036
-5556545375765846451|-8514616268392191775
6518576960059048853|6826969221610647599
-2505304097900087778|-1087908404908377458
sqlite> .exit
```

{{% alert theme="info" %}}
**Pro tip**: We usually save the launch command in a script.

> This way, it's easier to type it, but if you fancy even more automation, check out [`qemu-guest`](https://github.com/unikraft/kraft/blob/staging/scripts/qemu-guest) or even [`kraft`](https://unikraft.org/docs/usage/init/#kraft-run).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This way, it's easier to type it, but if you fancy even more automation, check out [`qemu-guest`](https://github.com/unikraft/kraft/blob/staging/scripts/qemu-guest) or [`kraft`](https://unikraft.org/docs/usage/init/#kraft-run).
```

{{% /alert %}}

### `app-sqlite` for `AArch64`

> The process of building `app-sqlite` for `AArch64` is quite similar to the one we've layed out for the `x86` architecture, the only thing that needs changes being the architecture, which should be switched to `Armv8` in the `Architecture Selection` menu.

Reviewer 2: Remind that configuration happens with `make menuconfig`.

{{% alert theme="info" %}}
**Note**: Before building our new unikernel (with a different architecture than the one from the previous step), we should do a proper clean, in order to ensure that the application gets compiled for the desired architecture:
{{% /alert %}}

```console
$ make properclean
```

For `AArch64`, the command with which we launch the app is:

```console
$ sudo qemu-system-aarch64 -fsdev local,id=myid,path=$(pwd)/fs0,security_model=none \
                           -device virtio-9p-pci,fsdev=myid,mount_tag=rootfs,disable-modern=on,disable-legacy=off \
                           -kernel "build/app-sqlite_kvm-arm64" \
                           -machine virt \
                           -cpu cortex-a57 \
                           -nographic
```

### `app-redis` for `x86`

The first step is to clone our dependencies:

1. [unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft)

1. [app-redis](https://github.com/unikraft/app-redis)

1. [lib-redis](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-redis), [lib-musl](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-musl), [lib-lwip](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip)

> We should be left with a file hierarchy that should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should be left with a file hierarchy that looks like this:
```

UK_LIBS ?= $(PWD)/../../libs
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-lwip:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-redis

all:
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS)

$(MAKECMDGOALS):
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS) $(MAKECMDGOALS)
```

We should also create a `Makefile.uk` in the `app-redis` directory:

```Makefile
$(eval $(call addlib,appredis))
```

We'll now create a directory named `fs0` in the `app-redis` directory, download [this file](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unikraft/summer-of-code-2021/main/content/en/docs/sessions/04-complex-applications/sol/03-set-up-and-run-redis/redis.conf), a `redis` configuration file, and move it there.
It will help us design a `redis` server close to our liking.

Configuring our app should go smoothly:

```console
$ make menuconfig
```

1. Choose the `x86` architecture from `Architecture Selection`

1. Choose the `KVM` platform from `Platform Configuration`

1. Choose the `Redis`, `lwip` and `musl` libraries from `Library Configuration`

1. In the `Redis` library choose the `Provide main function` option

1. In the `lwip` library make sure to have `IPv4`, `UDP support`, `TCP support`, `ICMP support`, `DHCP support`, `Socket API` enabled

> 1. Under the `vfscore` library, choose the `Default root filesystem` to be `9pfs`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Under the `vfscore` library, choose the `Default root filesystem` to be `9pfs`.
```

{{% /alert %}}

```console
$ make properclean
```

For `AArch64`, the command used to launch the app is:

```console
$ sudo qemu-system-aarch64 -fsdev local,id=myid,path=$(pwd)/fs0,security_model=none \
                           -device virtio-9p-pci,fsdev=myid,mount_tag=rootfs,disable-modern=on,disable-legacy=off \
                           -netdev bridge,id=en0,br=kraft0 \
                           -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=en0 \
                           -kernel "build/app-redis_kvm-arm64" \
                           -append "netdev.ipv4_addr=172.44.0.2 netdev.ipv4_gw_addr=172.44.0.1 netdev.ipv4_subnet_mask=255.255.255.0 -- /redis.conf" \
                           -machine virt \
                           -cpu cortex-a57 \
                           -nographic
```

### `app-nginx` for `x86`

The first step is to clone our dependencies:

1. [unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft)

1. [app-nginx](https://github.com/unikraft/app-nginx)

1. [lib-nginx](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-nginx), [lib-musl](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-musl), [lib-lwip](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip)

> We should be left with a file hierarchy that should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should be left with a file hierarchy that looks like this:
```

```console
workdir
|---apps/
|      |---app-nginx/
|---libs/
|      |---lib-lwip/
|      |---lib-musl/
|      |---lib-nginx/
|---unikraft/
```

We must create a `Makefile` in the `app-nginx` directory:

```Makefile
UK_ROOT ?= $(PWD)/../../unikraft
UK_LIBS ?= $(PWD)/../../libs
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-lwip:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-nginx

all:
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS)

$(MAKECMDGOALS):
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS) $(MAKECMDGOALS)
```

We should also create a `Makefile.uk` in the `app-nginx` directory:

```Makefile
$(eval $(call addlib,appnginx))
```

Onto configuring our app:

```console
$ make menuconfig
```

> 1. Choose the `x86` architecture from `Architecture Selection`

Reviewer 2: Add dots at the end.

link/ether 8a:08:a1:69:85:31 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
inet 172.44.0.1/24 scope global kraft0
valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
inet6 fe80::8808:a1ff:fe69:8531/64 scope link 
valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
```

Running our app is done using this command:

```console
$ sudo qemu-system-x86_64 -fsdev local,id=myid,path=$(pwd)/fs0,security_model=none \
                          -device virtio-9p-pci,fsdev=myid,mount_tag=rootfs,disable-modern=on,disable-legacy=off \
                          -netdev bridge,id=en0,br=kraft0 \
                          -device virtio-net-pci,netdev=en0 \
                          -kernel "build/app-nginx_kvm-x86_64" \
                          -append "netdev.ipv4_addr=172.44.0.2 netdev.ipv4_gw_addr=172.44.0.1 netdev.ipv4_subnet_mask=255.255.255.0 --" \
                          -cpu host \
                          -enable-kvm \
                          -nographic
```

If you're met with this error:

```console
failed to parse default acl file `/etc/qemu/bridge.conf'
qemu-system-x86_64: bridge helper failed
```

make sure to add this to your `/etc/qemu/bridge.conf` file (if it doesn't exist, create it):

```console
allow all
```

> For testing our app we'll open a new terminal, or use `tmux`, and give this command to retrive data from the server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For testing our app, we'll open a new terminal, or use `tmux`, and give this command to retrive data from the server:
```

```console
$ wget 172.44.0.2
--2021-08-18 16:47:38--  http://172.44.0.2/
--2022-07-19 21:17:17--  http://172.44.0.2/
Connecting to 172.44.0.2:80... connected.
HTTP request sent, awaiting response... 200 OK
Length: 180 [text/html]
Saving to: ‘index.html’

2022-07-19 21:17:17 (14,7 MB/s) - ‘index.html’ saved [180/180]
```

```console
$ cat index.html 
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Hello, world!</title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Hello, world!</h1>
<p>Powered by <a href="http://unikraft.org">Unikraft</a>.</p>
</body>
</html>
```

Don't forget to clean up our work: let's delete the bridge we've created earlier:

```console
$ sudo ip l set dev kraft0 down
$ sudo brctl delbr kraft0
```

### `app-nginx` for `AArch64`

> Just like we've stated for `SQLite` and `Redis`, for `AArch64` the build steps follow the tutorial for `x86`, the only thing that needs changes being the architecture, which should be switched to `Armv8` in the `Architecture Selection` menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Just like we've stated for `SQLite` and `Redis`, for `AArch64` the build steps follow the tutorial for `x86_64`.
The only thing that needs changes being the architecture, which should be switched to `Armv8` in the `Architecture Selection` menu.
```

                           -machine virt \
                           -cpu cortex-a57 \
                           -nographic
```

### `app-nginx` for `x86_64`

The first step is to clone our dependencies:

1. [unikraft](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft)

1. [app-nginx](https://github.com/unikraft/app-nginx)

1. [lib-nginx](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-nginx), [lib-musl](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-musl), [lib-lwip](https://github.com/unikraft/lib-lwip)

We should be left with a file hierarchy that looks like this:

```console
workdir/
|---apps/
|      |---app-nginx/
|---libs/
|      |---lib-lwip/
|      |---lib-musl/
|      |---lib-nginx/
|---unikraft/
```

We must create a `Makefile` in the `app-nginx` directory:

```Makefile
UK_ROOT ?= $(PWD)/../../unikraft
UK_LIBS ?= $(PWD)/../../libs
LIBS := $(UK_LIBS)/lib-musl:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-lwip:$(UK_LIBS)/lib-nginx

all:
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS)

$(MAKECMDGOALS):
	@$(MAKE) -C $(UK_ROOT) A=$(PWD) L=$(LIBS) $(MAKECMDGOALS)
```

We should also create a `Makefile.uk` in the `app-nginx` directory:

```Makefile
$(eval $(call addlib,appnginx))
```

> 

Author: Not really, since we already provide it in the [app repo](https://github.com/unikraft/app-nginx).
